# Sensoized-helmet-for-blind-people-using-HALO-technique
This project is to help the blind people navigate easily without a guide or a stick. Haptic assisted locating of obstacles is a model helmet for blind people to navigate freely without the use of a guide dog or cane. As in modern world blind people mostly walk with the help of a stick. Thus this project will be helpful for blind people to navigate freely. Human echolocation is used as technique for blind people to walk but this modern equipment is way easier than adapting to that technique. HALO consist of series of rangefinders that would take input from sensors and output feedback to pulse vibration motors placed on a person’s head. If a region was lacking feedback, then it would be safe to proceed in that direction. There are three rangefinders which uses ultrasonic waves to detect an obstacle. Microcontroller used in this project is an open source programmable device which provides integrated development environment (IDE) based on the Processing project, which includes support for the C and C++ programming languages. 
Thus by using the sensors if there is a lack of feedback in a particular area the person can proceed in that way knowing that there is no obstacles in his way. Haptic associated location of objects will be helpful kit to blind people all over the world as it costs cheaper. This is how location of objects is used in making helmet for blind people. There are three rangefinders which uses ultrasonic waves to detect an obstacle. The Module automatically sends eight 40 kHz and detect whether there is a pulse signal back. IF the signal back, through high level , time of high output IO duration is the time from sending ultrasonic to returning. Test distance = (high level time × velocity of sound (340M/S)/2.Three vibrating motors are placed and connected to the microcontroller through jumper cable. The distance obtained from three different range finders are fed to the microcontroller and when the obstacle is within 75 cms, digital signal from the microcontroller is sent to the corresponding vibrating motors which gives an haptic feedback to the user. When there is no obstacle there is no feedback from the vibrating motors and thus it would be safe to proceed in that direction 
Step 1: Things Required 
1.arduino 
2.US sensors(3) 
3.vibrating motors(3) 
4.jumper cables/connecting wires 
